README.md, before:

# TTC Positions Report

A desktop application for monitoring your Interactive Brokers positions with real-time market data, beautiful dark/light themes, and automatic updates.

![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-2.0.0-blue)
![Platform](https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-Windows%20%7C%20Mac-lightgrey)

## Features

- 📊 **Real-time positions** - View all your IBKR stock and options positions
- 🔄 **Auto-refresh** - Configurable refresh intervals (15s to 5min)
- 🌙 **Dark/Light mode** - Toggle with `D` key
- 🔍 **Quick search** - Filter symbols with `/` key
- 📈 **Market status** - Shows if market is open with countdown
- 🔔 **Auto-updates** - Get notified when new versions are available
- ⌨️ **Keyboard shortcuts** - `R` refresh, `E` export CSV, `?` help

---

## Table of Contents

1. [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
2. [GitHub Setup](#github-setup)
3. [Building the App](#building-the-app)
4. [Installing the App](#installing-the-app)
5. [Testing](#testing)
6. [Creating Updates](#creating-updates)
7. [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

---

## Prerequisites

### On Your Development Machine

| Requirement | Windows | Mac |
|-------------|---------|-----|
| Python 3.11+ | [python.org](https://python.org) | `brew install python@3.11` |
| Git | [git-scm.com](https://git-scm.com) | `brew install git` |
| PyInstaller | `pip install pyinstaller` | `pip install pyinstaller` |
| GitHub CLI (optional) | [cli.github.com](https://cli.github.com) | `brew install gh` |

### Windows Only
- **Inno Setup 6** - [Download](https://jrsoftware.org/isdl.php) (for creating installer)

### Mac Only
- **Xcode Command Line Tools** - `xcode-select --install`

### On the Target Machine (Dad's Computer)
- **IBKR Trader Workstation (TWS)** - Must be running for the app to work
- TWS API must be enabled (see [IBKR API Setup](#ibkr-api-setup))

---

## GitHub Setup

### Step 1: Create a Repository

1. Go to [github.com/new](https://github.com/new)
2. Name it `ttc-positions` (or whatever you prefer)
3. Choose **Private** (recommended) or Public
4. Click **Create repository**

### Step 2: Push Your Code

```bash
# Navigate to project folder
cd /path/to/ttc_positions_report

# Initialize git (if not already)
git init

# Add all files
git add .

# Commit
git commit -m "Initial commit - TTC Positions Report v2.0.0"

# Add your GitHub repo as remote
git remote add origin https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/ttc-positions.git

# Push
git push -u origin main
```

### Step 3: Update App Configuration

Edit `ttc_positions_app.py` and update these lines (around line 50):

```python
GITHUB_OWNER = "YOUR_USERNAME"    # Your GitHub username
GITHUB_REPO = "YOUR_REPO_NAME"     # Your repository name
```

Commit and push this change:
```bash
git add ttc_positions_app.py
git commit -m "Configure GitHub for auto-updates"
git push
```
 
---

## Building the App

### Option 1: Automated Builds with GitHub Actions (Recommended)

The easiest way to build for both Windows and Mac is to use GitHub Actions. This lets you push code from your Mac and have GitHub automatically build the Windows installer.

**To create a new release:**

```bash
# 1. Update the version in ttc_positions_app.py
# 2. Commit your changes
git add .
git commit -m "Release v2.1.0 - description of changes"

# 3. Create and push a version tag
git tag v2.1.0
git push origin main --tags
```
 
GitHub Actions will automatically:
1. Build the Windows .exe
2. Build the Mac .app and .dmg
3. Create a GitHub Release with both files attached
4. Your dad's app will see the update next time it launches!

**To manually trigger a build:**
1. Go to your repo on GitHub
2. Click **Actions** tab
3. Click **Build and Release** workflow
4. Click **Run workflow**
5. Enter version number and click **Run workflow**

---

### Option 2: Local Builds

Use these instructions if you want to build locally on each platform.

#### Setting Up the Build Environment

**Both platforms:**
```bash
# Create virtual environment
python -m venv venv

# Activate it
# Windows:
venv\Scripts\activate
# Mac:
source venv/bin/activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt
pip install pyinstaller
```

### Building on Windows

```batch
# Make sure venv is activated
venv\Scripts\activate

# Build the executable (note: ^ is line continuation in Windows batch)
pyinstaller --name "TTC Positions Report" ^
    --onefile ^
    --windowed ^
    --hidden-import=ib_async ^
    --hidden-import=webview ^
    --hidden-import=webview.platforms.winforms ^
    ttc_positions_app.py

# The exe will be in: dist\TTC Positions Report.exe
```

**Creating the Installer (requires Inno Setup):**

1. Open Inno Setup Compiler
2. Open `installer\ttc_setup.iss`
3. Click **Build → Compile**
4. Installer created at: `Output\TTC_Positions_Setup_2.0.0.exe`

**Or use the release script:**
```batch
release.bat
```

### Building on Mac

```bash
# Make sure venv is activated
source venv/bin/activate

# Build the app (note: \ is line continuation in bash/zsh)
# Use --onedir (not --onefile) for Mac .app bundles
pyinstaller --name "TTC Positions Report" \
    --onedir \
    --windowed \
    --hidden-import=ib_async \
    --hidden-import=webview \
    --hidden-import=webview.platforms.cocoa \
    ttc_positions_app.py

# The app will be in: dist/TTC Positions Report.app
```

**Creating a DMG:**
```bash
# Simple DMG
hdiutil create -volname "TTC Positions Report" \
    -srcfolder "dist/TTC Positions Report.app" \
    -ov -format UDZO \
    "dist/TTC_Positions_Report_2.0.0_Mac.dmg"
```

**Or use the release script:**
```bash
chmod +x release.sh
./release.sh
```

---

## Installing the App

### Windows Installation

1. **Get the installer**: `TTC_Positions_Setup_2.0.0.exe`
2. **Run it**: Double-click, click Next a few times
3. **Desktop shortcut**: Created automatically ✓
4. **Start Menu**: Added automatically ✓

**To run the app:**
- Double-click "TTC Positions Report" on the desktop

### Mac Installation

1. **Get the DMG**: `TTC_Positions_Report_2.0.0_Mac.dmg`
2. **Open it**: Double-click the DMG file
3. **Drag to Applications**: Drag the app to Applications folder
4. **First run**: Right-click → Open (to bypass Gatekeeper)

**To run the app:**
- Open from Applications or Spotlight (`Cmd+Space`, type "TTC")

---

## Testing

### IBKR API Setup

Before the app can connect to IBKR, you need to enable the API:

1. **Open Trader Workstation (TWS)**
2. **Go to**: File → Global Configuration → API → Settings
3. **Enable these settings**:
   - ☑️ Enable ActiveX and Socket Clients
   - ☑️ Read-Only API (recommended for safety)
   - Socket port: `7496` (or `7497` for paper trading)
4. **Add trusted IP**: `127.0.0.1`
5. **Click Apply and OK**

### Test the App

1. **Make sure TWS is running** and logged in
2. **Start the app** (double-click desktop icon)
3. **You should see**:
   - Your positions loading
   - Market status (Open/Closed)
   - Watchlist symbols

### Test Checklist

| Test | Expected Result |
|------|-----------------|
| App starts | Window opens, no errors |
| Data loads | Positions appear in table |
| Refresh works | Click refresh, data updates |
| Search works | Type symbol, table filters |
| Dark mode | Press `D`, colors invert |
| Export CSV | Press `E`, file downloads |
| TWS closed | Friendly error message |

---

## Creating Updates

When you want to release a new version:

### Step 1: Update Version Number

Edit `ttc_positions_app.py`:
```python
APP_VERSION = "2.1.0"  # Increment this
```

Also update in the HTML (search for `version-badge` and `TTC Positions Report v`).

### Step 2: Commit and Tag

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Release v2.1.0 - description of changes"
git tag v2.1.0
git push origin main --tags
```

### Step 3: GitHub Actions Builds Automatically

Once you push the tag, GitHub Actions will:
1. ✅ Build Windows .exe (on GitHub's Windows runner)
2. ✅ Build Mac .dmg (on GitHub's Mac runner)
3. ✅ Create a GitHub Release with both files attached

You can watch the progress in the **Actions** tab on GitHub.

### Step 4: Users Get the Update

Next time your dad opens the app on Windows:
1. He'll see a banner: "Update Available! Version 2.1.0 is ready."
2. He clicks "Update Now"
3. App downloads and installs automatically
4. App restarts with new version

---

### Alternative: Manual Release (if GitHub Actions isn't working)

**Option A: Using GitHub CLI**
```bash
gh auth login  # One-time setup
gh release create v2.1.0 --title "v2.1.0" --notes "What's new"
```

**Option B: Using GitHub Website**
1. Go to your repo → **Releases** → **Create a new release**
2. Tag: `v2.1.0`, Title: `v2.1.0`
3. Build locally and attach files manually
4. Click **Publish release**

---

## Troubleshooting

### "Please make sure Trader Workstation is running"

**Cause**: App can't connect to IBKR

**Fix**:
1. Make sure TWS is open and logged in
2. Check API is enabled (see [IBKR API Setup](#ibkr-api-setup))
3. Try restarting TWS
4. Click Refresh in the app

### "Windows protected your PC" (Windows)

**Cause**: Windows SmartScreen doesn't recognize the app

**Fix**:
1. Click "More info"
2. Click "Run anyway"
3. This only happens the first time

### "App is damaged" (Mac)

**Cause**: macOS Gatekeeper blocking unsigned app

**Fix**:
```bash
# Remove quarantine attribute
xattr -cr "/Applications/TTC Positions Report.app"
```

Or: Right-click → Open → Open

### App won't start

**Check the logs**:
- Windows: `C:\Users\YOU\AppData\Local\TTC Positions Report\log\`
- Mac: `~/Library/Logs/TTC Positions Report/`

Or in the app folder: `log/YYYY-MM-DD/ttc_positions_app.log`

### Update not showing

**Cause**: GitHub releases not configured correctly

**Check**:
1. `GITHUB_OWNER` and `GITHUB_REPO` are correct in `ttc_positions_app.py`
2. Release is published (not draft)
3. Release has the correct asset attached (installer/dmg)

---

## Keyboard Shortcuts

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `R` | Refresh data |
| `/` | Focus search |
| `D` | Toggle dark mode |
| `C` | Toggle compact view |
| `E` | Export to CSV |
| `?` | Show shortcuts |
| `Esc` | Clear search / Close modal |

---

## File Structure

```
ttc_positions_report/
├── ttc_positions_app.py    # Main application
├── requirements.txt        # Python dependencies
├── ttc_watchlist.json      # Your watchlist (auto-created)
├── release.sh              # Mac build script
├── release.bat             # Windows build script
├── installer/              # Windows installer files
│   ├── ttc_setup.iss       # Inno Setup script
│   └── icon.svg            # App icon source
└── .gitignore              # Git ignore rules
```

---

## License

Private use only.

---

## Support

If something isn't working, check the [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) section or open an issue on GitHub.

Commit message:

Fix build workflow, add email notifications

README.md, after:

# TTC Positions Report

A desktop application for monitoring your Interactive Brokers positions with real-time market data, beautiful dark/light themes, and automatic updates.

![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-2.0.0-blue)
![Platform](https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-Windows%20%7C%20Mac-lightgrey)

## Features

- 📊 **Real-time positions** - View all your IBKR stock and options positions
- 🔄 **Auto-refresh** - Configurable refresh intervals (15s to 5min)
- 🌙 **Dark/Light mode** - Toggle with `D` key
- 🔍 **Quick search** - Filter symbols with `/` key
- 📈 **Market status** - Shows if market is open with countdown
- 🔔 **Auto-updates** - Get notified when new versions are available
- ⌨️ **Keyboard shortcuts** - `R` refresh, `E` export CSV, `?` help

---

## Table of Contents

1. [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
2. [GitHub Setup](#github-setup)
3. [Building the App](#building-the-app)
4. [Installing the App](#installing-the-app)
5. [Testing](#testing)
6. [Creating Updates](#creating-updates)
7. [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

---

## Prerequisites

### On Your Development Machine

| Requirement | Windows | Mac |
|-------------|---------|-----|
| Python 3.11+ | [python.org](https://python.org) | `brew install python@3.11` |
| Git | [git-scm.com](https://git-scm.com) | `brew install git` |
| PyInstaller | `pip install pyinstaller` | `pip install pyinstaller` |
| GitHub CLI (optional) | [cli.github.com](https://cli.github.com) | `brew install gh` |

### Windows Only
- **Inno Setup 6** - [Download](https://jrsoftware.org/isdl.php) (for creating installer)

### Mac Only
- **Xcode Command Line Tools** - `xcode-select --install`

### On the Target Machine (Dad's Computer)
- **IBKR Trader Workstation (TWS)** - Must be running for the app to work
- TWS API must be enabled (see [IBKR API Setup](#ibkr-api-setup))

---

## GitHub Setup

### Step 1: Create a Repository

1. Go to [github.com/new](https://github.com/new)
2. Name it `ttc-positions` (or whatever you prefer)
3. Choose **Private** (recommended) or Public
4. Click **Create repository**

### Step 2: Push Your Code

```bash
# Navigate to project folder
cd /path/to/ttc_positions_report

# Initialize git (if not already)
git init

# Add all files
git add .

# Commit
git commit -m "Initial commit - TTC Positions Report v2.0.0"

# Add your GitHub repo as remote
git remote add origin https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/ttc-positions.git

# Push
git push -u origin main
```

### Step 3: Update App Configuration

Edit `ttc_positions_app.py` and update these lines (around line 50):

```python
GITHUB_OWNER = "YOUR_USERNAME"    # Your GitHub username
GITHUB_REPO = "YOUR_REPO_NAME"     # Your repository name
```

Commit and push this change:
```bash
git add ttc_positions_app.py
git commit -m "Configure GitHub for auto-updates"
git push
```

### Step 4: Set Up Email Notifications (Optional)

To receive email notifications when a new build is released:

1. Go to your repo → **Settings** → **Secrets and variables** → **Actions**
2. Click **New repository secret** and add these secrets:

| Secret Name | Value |
|-------------|-------|
| `SMTP_USERNAME` | Your Gmail address (e.g., `yourname@gmail.com`) |
| `SMTP_PASSWORD` | A Gmail App Password (see below) |

**Creating a Gmail App Password:**
1. Go to [Google Account Security](https://myaccount.google.com/security)
2. Enable 2-Step Verification if not already enabled
3. Go to **App passwords** (search for it)
4. Create a new app password for "Mail"
5. Copy the 16-character password and use it as `SMTP_PASSWORD`

**To change email recipients:**
Edit `.github/workflows/build-release.yml` and update:
```yaml
env:
  EMAIL_RECIPIENTS: "email1@example.com,email2@example.com"
```
 
---

## Building the App

### Option 1: Automated Builds with GitHub Actions (Recommended)

The easiest way to build for both Windows and Mac is to use GitHub Actions. This lets you push code from your Mac and have GitHub automatically build the Windows installer.

**To create a new release:**

```bash
# 1. Update the version in ttc_positions_app.py
# 2. Commit your changes
git add .
git commit -m "Release v2.1.0 - description of changes"

# 3. Create and push a version tag
git tag v2.1.0
git push origin main --tags
```
 
GitHub Actions will automatically:
1. Build the Windows .exe
2. Build the Mac .app and .dmg
3. Create a GitHub Release with both files attached
4. Your dad's app will see the update next time it launches!

**To manually trigger a build:**
1. Go to your repo on GitHub
2. Click **Actions** tab
3. Click **Build and Release** workflow
4. Click **Run workflow**
5. Enter version number and click **Run workflow**

---

### Option 2: Local Builds

Use these instructions if you want to build locally on each platform.

#### Setting Up the Build Environment

**Both platforms:**
```bash
# Create virtual environment
python -m venv venv

# Activate it
# Windows:
venv\Scripts\activate
# Mac:
source venv/bin/activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt
pip install pyinstaller
```

### Building on Windows

```batch
# Make sure venv is activated
venv\Scripts\activate

# Build the executable (note: ^ is line continuation in Windows batch)
pyinstaller --name "TTC Positions Report" ^
    --onefile ^
    --windowed ^
    --hidden-import=ib_async ^
    --hidden-import=webview ^
    --hidden-import=webview.platforms.winforms ^
    ttc_positions_app.py

# The exe will be in: dist\TTC Positions Report.exe
```

**Creating the Installer (requires Inno Setup):**

1. Open Inno Setup Compiler
2. Open `installer\ttc_setup.iss`
3. Click **Build → Compile**
4. Installer created at: `Output\TTC_Positions_Setup_2.0.0.exe`

**Or use the release script:**
```batch
release.bat
```

### Building on Mac

```bash
# Make sure venv is activated
source venv/bin/activate

# Build the app (note: \ is line continuation in bash/zsh)
# Use --onedir (not --onefile) for Mac .app bundles
pyinstaller --name "TTC Positions Report" \
    --onedir \
    --windowed \
    --hidden-import=ib_async \
    --hidden-import=webview \
    --hidden-import=webview.platforms.cocoa \
    ttc_positions_app.py

# The app will be in: dist/TTC Positions Report.app
```

**Creating a DMG:**
```bash
# Simple DMG
hdiutil create -volname "TTC Positions Report" \
    -srcfolder "dist/TTC Positions Report.app" \
    -ov -format UDZO \
    "dist/TTC_Positions_Report_2.0.0_Mac.dmg"
```

**Or use the release script:**
```bash
chmod +x release.sh
./release.sh
```

---

## Installing the App

### Windows Installation

1. **Get the installer**: `TTC_Positions_Setup_2.0.0.exe`
2. **Run it**: Double-click, click Next a few times
3. **Desktop shortcut**: Created automatically ✓
4. **Start Menu**: Added automatically ✓

**To run the app:**
- Double-click "TTC Positions Report" on the desktop

### Mac Installation

1. **Get the DMG**: `TTC_Positions_Report_2.0.0_Mac.dmg`
2. **Open it**: Double-click the DMG file
3. **Drag to Applications**: Drag the app to Applications folder
4. **First run**: Right-click → Open (to bypass Gatekeeper)

**To run the app:**
- Open from Applications or Spotlight (`Cmd+Space`, type "TTC")

---

## Testing

### IBKR API Setup

Before the app can connect to IBKR, you need to enable the API:

1. **Open Trader Workstation (TWS)**
2. **Go to**: File → Global Configuration → API → Settings
3. **Enable these settings**:
   - ☑️ Enable ActiveX and Socket Clients
   - ☑️ Read-Only API (recommended for safety)
   - Socket port: `7496` (or `7497` for paper trading)
4. **Add trusted IP**: `127.0.0.1`
5. **Click Apply and OK**

### Test the App

1. **Make sure TWS is running** and logged in
2. **Start the app** (double-click desktop icon)
3. **You should see**:
   - Your positions loading
   - Market status (Open/Closed)
   - Watchlist symbols

### Test Checklist

| Test | Expected Result |
|------|-----------------|
| App starts | Window opens, no errors |
| Data loads | Positions appear in table |
| Refresh works | Click refresh, data updates |
| Search works | Type symbol, table filters |
| Dark mode | Press `D`, colors invert |
| Export CSV | Press `E`, file downloads |
| TWS closed | Friendly error message |

---

## Creating Updates

When you want to release a new version:

### Step 1: Update Version Number

Edit `ttc_positions_app.py`:
```python
APP_VERSION = "2.1.0"  # Increment this
```

Also update in the HTML (search for `version-badge` and `TTC Positions Report v`).

### Step 2: Commit and Tag

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Release v2.1.0 - description of changes"
git tag v2.1.0
git push origin main --tags
```

### Step 3: GitHub Actions Builds Automatically

Once you push the tag, GitHub Actions will:
1. ✅ Build Windows .exe (on GitHub's Windows runner)
2. ✅ Build Mac .dmg (on GitHub's Mac runner)
3. ✅ Create a GitHub Release with both files attached

You can watch the progress in the **Actions** tab on GitHub.

### Step 4: Users Get the Update

Next time your dad opens the app on Windows:
1. He'll see a banner: "Update Available! Version 2.1.0 is ready."
2. He clicks "Update Now"
3. App downloads and installs automatically
4. App restarts with new version

---

### Alternative: Manual Release (if GitHub Actions isn't working)

**Option A: Using GitHub CLI**
```bash
gh auth login  # One-time setup
gh release create v2.1.0 --title "v2.1.0" --notes "What's new"
```

**Option B: Using GitHub Website**
1. Go to your repo → **Releases** → **Create a new release**
2. Tag: `v2.1.0`, Title: `v2.1.0`
3. Build locally and attach files manually
4. Click **Publish release**

---

## Troubleshooting

### "Please make sure Trader Workstation is running"

**Cause**: App can't connect to IBKR

**Fix**:
1. Make sure TWS is open and logged in
2. Check API is enabled (see [IBKR API Setup](#ibkr-api-setup))
3. Try restarting TWS
4. Click Refresh in the app

### "Windows protected your PC" (Windows)

**Cause**: Windows SmartScreen doesn't recognize the app

**Fix**:
1. Click "More info"
2. Click "Run anyway"
3. This only happens the first time

### "App is damaged" (Mac)

**Cause**: macOS Gatekeeper blocking unsigned app

**Fix**:
```bash
# Remove quarantine attribute
xattr -cr "/Applications/TTC Positions Report.app"
```

Or: Right-click → Open → Open

### App won't start

**Check the logs**:
- Windows: `C:\Users\YOU\AppData\Local\TTC Positions Report\log\`
- Mac: `~/Library/Logs/TTC Positions Report/`

Or in the app folder: `log/YYYY-MM-DD/ttc_positions_app.log`

### Update not showing

**Cause**: GitHub releases not configured correctly

**Check**:
1. `GITHUB_OWNER` and `GITHUB_REPO` are correct in `ttc_positions_app.py`
2. Release is published (not draft)
3. Release has the correct asset attached (installer/dmg)

---

## Keyboard Shortcuts

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `R` | Refresh data |
| `/` | Focus search |
| `D` | Toggle dark mode |
| `C` | Toggle compact view |
| `E` | Export to CSV |
| `?` | Show shortcuts |
| `Esc` | Clear search / Close modal |

---

## File Structure

```
ttc_positions_report/
├── ttc_positions_app.py    # Main application
├── requirements.txt        # Python dependencies
├── ttc_watchlist.json      # Your watchlist (auto-created)
├── release.sh              # Mac build script
├── release.bat             # Windows build script
├── installer/              # Windows installer files
│   ├── ttc_setup.iss       # Inno Setup script
│   └── icon.svg            # App icon source
└── .gitignore              # Git ignore rules
```

---

## License

Private use only.

---

## Support

If something isn't working, check the [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) section or open an issue on GitHub.
